README.md, before:

# Specification Phase Exercise

A little exercise to get started with the specification phase of the software development lifecycle. See the [instructions](instructions.md) for more detail.

## Team members

[Jack Wang](https://github.com/JackInTheBox314), 
[Weite Li](https://github.com/YYukin0),
[Jialiang Tang](https://github.com/JialiangTang1) 
[Jonathan Gao](https://github.com/jg169)

## Stakeholders

### Stakeholder 1: Shemar Forbes 

**Goals/Needs:**
- hope to have a good professor 
- needs to be a good class fit 
- likes classes with groups 
- lean more towards group work itself for meeting new people 
- it would be nice to have people that you know 
- get into a class that works for the schedule, but instead of a number one choice he is searching for a second or third choice 
- searching for second or third choice ruins the experience for him 

**Problems/Frustrations:**
- Albert itself should have a split screen view 
- more student centric 
- not realizing how many classes you may have is an issue 
- filled up classes 
- inconveninet times for classes 
- more clarity regarding being on the waitlist 
- there is a cap on the waitlist 
- the current system doesn't do much to help those on the waitlist 
- advisors aren't very helpful 
- feels like a waste of money
- wanting some satisfaction from the course selections 

### Stakeholder 2: Alex Li

**Goals/Needs:**
- Wants to take cross-school class
- Check popularity of course (how fast it fills up)
- Check reviews of class (include ratings)

**Problems/Frustrations:** 
- Process of applying for cross-school class is very convoluted and can mess up enrollment for other classes.
- Be able to see class schedule while browsing courses.
- Didn't check availability repeatedly so if someone dropped it he wouldn't know.

### Stakeholder 3: Olivia Martinez

**Goals/Needs:**
- Wants to easily view and join waitlists for full classes to secure a spot if one becomes available.
- Prefers the ability to sell her spot in a class to manage her schedule more flexibly and recover some of her tuition costs.
- Desires notifications when a spot in a desired class opens up to register before it fills up again.
- Needs to filter and search for classes by times, professors, and availability to find courses that best fit her academic and personal schedule.
- As a graduating student, she wants classes that prepare her for the workforce.

**Problems/Frustrations:**
- Current systems make it difficult to manage waitlists effectively.
- Missed opportunities due to a lack of notifications for open spots in desired classes.
- Inability to switch or adjust class enrollments smoothly when schedules or preferences change.
- Frustrated by vague course descriptions that do not clarify practical or workforce preparation elements.
- Limited ability to filter courses based on preferences like times, professors, or workload.
- Difficulty identifying career-focused or practical classes needed for workforce preparation.


## Product Vision Statement

ClassBay (like ebay but for classes) is a service that revamps class signups and waitlists with a secondary marketplace for course registration, providing course liquidity by allowing students to exchange spots during the add-drop period making a stressful process streamlined and leading to better matchups through social dynamics and free market principles. 

## User Requirements

- As a student, I want to easily view and join waitlists for full classes so that I can secure a spot if one becomes available.
- As a student, I want to be able to sell my spot in a class so that I can manage my schedule more flexibly and recover some of my tuition costs.
- As a student, I want to receive notifications when a spot in a desired class opens up so that I can register before it fills up again.
- As an administrator, I want to view real-time statistics on class demand and waitlist lengths so that I can adjust course offerings accordingly.
- As a student, I want to filter and search for classes by times, professors, and availability so that I can find courses that best fit my academic and personal schedule.
- As a college student looking into classes, I want to switch to classes that fit my needs so that I can take classes that are more balanced to handle the semester. 
- As a college student looking into signing up for classes, I want to sign up for classes with  people that I am familiar with so that I feel that I know some people in class and projects.
- As a student, I want to be able to see historical course data (Stored in Course Feedback Results) on the course search page to help with enrollment decisions.
- As a student, I want to be able to bookmark/save classes for quick access so that I don't have to waste time looking through the entire class list each time.
- As a student, I want to receive alerts when a class I am interested in is nearing capacity so that I can register before it fills up if I am still undecided. 

## Activity Diagrams

First UML Activity Diagram:  
![First UML Activity Diagram](UML1.png)

The second UML Activity Diagram:
![Second UML Activity Diagram](UML2.png)
## Clickable Prototype

[prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/snzrok5nuP927l1r6CneUJ/TheBestTeam?node-id=1-2&p=f&t=0Sxey6lYgSSU1JSI-1&scaling=scale-down&content-scaling=fixed&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=1%3A2)

Commit message:

Update  README.md with the version from main

README.md, after:

# Specification Phase Exercise

A little exercise to get started with the specification phase of the software development lifecycle. See the [instructions](instructions.md) for more detail.

## Team members

[Jack Wang](https://github.com/JackInTheBox314), 
[Weite Li](https://github.com/YYukin0),
[Jialiang Tang](https://github.com/JialiangTang1) 
[Jonathan Gao](https://github.com/jg169)

## Stakeholders

### Stakeholder 1: Shemar Forbes 

**Goals/Needs:**
- hope to have a good professor 
- needs to be a good class fit 
- likes classes with groups 
- lean more towards group work itself for meeting new people 
- it would be nice to have people that you know 
- get into a class that works for the schedule, but instead of a number one choice he is searching for a second or third choice 
- searching for second or third choice ruins the experience for him 

**Problems/Frustrations:**
- Albert itself should have a split screen view 
- more student centric 
- not realizing how many classes you may have is an issue 
- filled up classes 
- inconveninet times for classes 
- more clarity regarding being on the waitlist 
- there is a cap on the waitlist 
- the current system doesn't do much to help those on the waitlist 
- advisors aren't very helpful 
- feels like a waste of money
- wanting some satisfaction from the course selections 

### Stakeholder 2: Alex Li

**Goals/Needs:**
- Wants to take cross-school class
- Check popularity of course (how fast it fills up)
- Check reviews of class (include ratings)

**Problems/Frustrations:** 
- Process of applying for cross-school class is very convoluted and can mess up enrollment for other classes.
- Be able to see class schedule while browsing courses.
- Didn't check availability repeatedly so if someone dropped it he wouldn't know.

### Stakeholder 3: Olivia Martinez

**Goals/Needs:**
- Wants to easily view and join waitlists for full classes to secure a spot if one becomes available.
- Prefers the ability to sell her spot in a class to manage her schedule more flexibly and recover some of her tuition costs.
- Desires notifications when a spot in a desired class opens up to register before it fills up again.
- Needs to filter and search for classes by times, professors, and availability to find courses that best fit her academic and personal schedule.
- As a graduating student, she wants classes that prepare her for the workforce.

**Problems/Frustrations:**
- Current systems make it difficult to manage waitlists effectively.
- Missed opportunities due to a lack of notifications for open spots in desired classes.
- Inability to switch or adjust class enrollments smoothly when schedules or preferences change.
- Frustrated by vague course descriptions that do not clarify practical or workforce preparation elements.
- Limited ability to filter courses based on preferences like times, professors, or workload.
- Difficulty identifying career-focused or practical classes needed for workforce preparation.


## Product Vision Statement

ClassBay (like ebay but for classes) is a service that revamps class signups and waitlists with a secondary marketplace for course registration, providing course liquidity by allowing students to exchange spots during the add-drop period making a stressful process streamlined and leading to better matchups through social dynamics and free market principles. 

## User Requirements

- As a student, I want to be able to easily keep track of classes that I am comparing so that I can make the best choice for the next semester.
- As a student, I want to see which classes have more or less demand from other students so I can add/drop classes strategically during the chaotic weeks before the deadline
- As a student, I want to receive notifications when a spot in a desired class opens up so that I can register before it fills up again.
- As a student, I want to view statistics on class demand so that I can plan for which classes I may need focus on during signup periods 
- As a student, I want to filter and search for classes by times, professors, and availability so that I can find courses that best fit my academic and personal schedule.
- As a college student looking into classes, I want to switch to classes that fit my needs so that I can take classes that are more balanced to handle the semester. 
- As a college student looking into signing up for classes, I want to sign up for classes with  people that I am familiar with so that I feel that I know some people in class and projects.
- As a student, I want to be able to see easily see historical course data that is stored in course feedback results on the course search page to help with enrollment decisions.
- As a student, I want to be able to bookmark/save classes for quick access so that I don't have to waste time looking through the entire class list each time.
- As a student, I want to receive alerts when a class I am interested is opening up so that I can register before it fills up if I am still undecided. 

## Activity Diagrams

Example UML Activity Diagram:  
![UML Diagram 1](uml_activity_diagram.png)

## Clickable Prototype

[prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/snzrok5nuP927l1r6CneUJ/TheBestTeam?node-id=1-2&p=f&t=0Sxey6lYgSSU1JSI-1&scaling=scale-down&content-scaling=fixed&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=1%3A2)
